# CLI arguments explained



<table><thead><tr><th>Argument</th><th width="313">Description</th><th width="111">Type</th><th>Required</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>--input</td><td>Beta CSV file or directory containing raw IDAT files and metadata. The pipeline mode (complete or trees-only) will be chosen automatically based on the input</td><td>PATH</td><td>Required</td></tr><tr><td>--output</td><td>Output identifier. Affects some output file names only</td><td>PATH</td><td>Required</td></tr><tr><td>--patientinfo</td><td>Path to patient metadata in CSV format. It must be sample-wise, and should indicate the id, and the patient id it belongs to. We recommend to add the sample age, age at diagnosis of the patient and sample type (tumor or normal). The sample sheet could be passed since it matches these requirements.</td><td>PATH</td><td>Required</td></tr><tr><td>--luca-mode</td><td>Should LUCA be fixed to birth or free (recommended when no normals available).</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--patient-col</td><td>Column name for the patients in the metadata.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--sample-col</td><td>Column name for the samples in the metadata.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--age-col</td><td>Column name for the sample age in the metadata.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--age-diagnosis-col</td><td>Column name for the age at diagnosis in the metadata.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--sample-type-col</td><td>Column name for the patient id column in the sample sheet.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--fcpgs</td><td>Set of fcpgs (one per row) to use in the inference step. Skips fCpG calling step.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--blacklist</td><td>Set of fcpgs (one per row) to blacklist. They will be merged with the crossreactive probe set shared <a href="https://github.com/markgene/maxprobes/blob/master/inst/extdata/13059_2016_1066_MOESM1_ESM.csv">here</a></td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--cnv/--no-cnv</td><td>Whether to activate or not CNV calling. Requires both tumor and normal samples. Only available in the complete mode.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--genome-plot/--no-genome-plot</td><td>Whether to generate CNV genome plots.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--manifest</td><td>Path to Illumina EPIC manifest CSV file. Default is <a href="https://webdata.illumina.com/downloads/productfiles/methylationEPIC/infinium-methylationepic-v-1-0-b4-manifest-file-csv.zip"><strong>Infinium MethylationEPIC v1.0 B4 Manifest File</strong></a></td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--percent</td><td>Float specifying the top percentage of most heterogeneous CpG loci to include when calling fCpGs.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--stemcells</td><td>Range of stem cells to run Phyfum in the format 'start:end:step'. For example, 3:8:1 will make the inference considering: 3,4,5,6,7,8 stem cells.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--delta</td><td>Prior for the delta parameter.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--eta</td><td>Prior for the eta parameter.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--kappa</td><td>Prior for the kappa parameter.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mu</td><td>Prior for the mu parameter.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--gamma</td><td>Prior for the gamma parameter.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--lam</td><td>Prior for the lambda parameter.</td><td>TEXT</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--iterations</td><td>Number of MCMC iterations.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--precision</td><td>Number of significant digits to consider when digitizing the values. Recommended >2 at least.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--sampling</td><td>Frequency of sampling in the log file.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--screensampling</td><td>Frequency of sampling to print on the screen.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--striprownames/--no-striprownames</td><td>Activate the flag if the first column are rownames. Necessary if the full workflow is run.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mle-ps/--no-mle-ps</td><td>Activates/deactivates the analysis of the MLE samples to estimate the MLE using Path Sampling.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mle-ss/--no-mle-ss</td><td>Activates/deactivates the analysis of the MLE samples to estimate the MLE using Stepping Stone.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--hme/--no-hme</td><td>Activates/deactivates the estimation of the MLE using the Harmonic Mean Estimate.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mle-steps</td><td>Number of power posteriors to use for MLE.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mle-iterations</td><td>Number of MCMC iterations to run in each step. Defaults to MCMC --iterations / --mle-steps.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--mle-sampling</td><td>Sampling period for the power-posterior MCMC samplers. Defaults to --iterations / 1000.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--seed</td><td>Set a seed for BEAST. Make it negative to inactivate this parameter.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--workdir</td><td>Path to the output directory.</td><td>PATH</td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--force/-f</td><td>Force the execution of the pipeline regardless of already created output.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--dry/-n</td><td>Do not execute anything, and display what would be done.</td><td></td><td>Optional</td></tr><tr><td>--cores/-c</td><td>Set the number of cores to use. If None will use all cores.</td><td>INTEGER</td><td>Optional</td></tr></tbody></table>
